Make vast.conf lookup on Linux systems more intuitive (#1036)
tenzir/vast: CHANGELOG.md

- ⚠️ change
- 🐞 bugfix

## Unreleased

> - ⚠️ On Linux systems, VAST no longer looks for the `share/vast` directory
>   relative to the binary location. On macOS and FreeBSD, this behavor still
>   exists. [#1036](https://github.com/tenzir/vast/pull/1036)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ⚠️ On Linux, VAST no longer looks for the `share/vast` directory
  relative to the location of the `vast` binary. On macOS and FreeBSD, this behavior still
  exists. [#1036](https://github.com/tenzir/vast/pull/1036)
```

I'm mostly missing a reason for why that change occurred in the changelog.

Author: I improved the wording. Please take another look.

- ⚠️ change
- 🐞 bugfix

## Unreleased

> - ⚠️ On Linux, VAST no longer looks for the `share/vast` directory relative to
>   the location of the `vast` binary, because users preferred to always use
>   `/etc/vast` instead. On macOS and FreeBSD, both paths are still looked at.
>   [#1036](https://github.com/tenzir/vast/pull/1036)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ⚠️ On Linux, VAST no longer looks for the `share/vast` directory relative to
  the location of the `vast` binary, because Linux distributions expect that a system-wide configuration in `/etc` takes precedence over one in `/usr/local/etc`. On macOS and FreeBSD, both paths are still looked at.
  [#1036](https://github.com/tenzir/vast/pull/1036)
```

Reviewer: I gave it another shot to make sure I understood this correctly. Does that read fine?

Author: That is mostly correct, except that we're not looking at `/usr/local`, it's just that it is the most common install prefix in practice.

Reviewer: Okay, so `/usr/local` -> `PREFIX` assuming that PREFIX is not `/`.

## Unreleased

- 🎁 VAST now supports the XDG base directory specification: The `vast.conf` is
  now found at `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-${HOME}/.config}/vast/vast.conf`, and schema
  files at `${XDG_DATA_HOME:-${HOME}/.local/share}/vast/schema/`. The
  user-specific configuration file takes precedence over the global
  configuration file in `${sysconfdir}/vast/vast.conf`.

>   [#1036](https://github.com/tenzir/vast/pull/1036)

Reviewer: Is `${sysconfdir}` an environment variable? At least this syntax, next to `${HOME}`, suggests that.

Author: It's not. You can set a combination of `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` (default: `/usr/local`) and `CMAKE_INSTALL_SYSCONFDIR` (default: `share`) to change it during compile time.

Would you prefer `<sysconfdir>` over `${sysconfdir}`?

Author: I've gone ahead with my proposed change.

  now found at `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-${HOME}/.config}/vast/vast.conf`, and schema
  files at `${XDG_DATA_HOME:-${HOME}/.local/share}/vast/schema/`. The
  user-specific configuration file takes precedence over the global
  configuration file in `<sysconfdir>/vast/vast.conf`.
  [#1036](https://github.com/tenzir/vast/pull/1036)

- ⚠️ The global VAST configuration now always resides in
  `<sysconfdir>/vast/vast.conf`, and bundled schemas always in

>   `<datadir>/vast/schema/`. VAST no longer supports reading a `vast.conf` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `<schemadir>/vast/schema/`. VAST no longer supports reading a `vast.conf` file
```

Since the path ends in `/schema`, it seems natural to me to call this path `schemadir`.

Author: It's called datadir because the share directory is called the data directory. It is derived from `CMAKE_INSTALL_DATADIR`.

Author: (This is much like the `<sysconfdir>` above. We wouldn't want to name that `confdir` either.

Reviewer: Got it.
